Data Policies enforce data consistency by setting mandatory and read-only field attributes. 
Unlike UI Policies, Data Policies execute server-side. UI Policy logic only applies to data entered in a form.
 Data Policy logic executes regardless of how a record changes. 
 Developers cannot apply scripts to Data Policies. 

 For example, suppose that you are configuring a web service that allows users from outside the platform 
 to update problems on the ServiceNow instance. Since these problems are not updated through 
 the instance UI, they are not subject to the UI policies on the problem form. 

 Since UI policies can also manage the visibility of fields on a form, 
 you may want to augment UI policies with data policies rather than replace them.

 System Diagnostics > Session Debug > Debug Data Policies

 When the Use as UI Policy on client option is not selected, the record needs to be submitted before the user knows the field is mandatory, and the record submission fails. In the example, the State is set to Resolved, but the form does not indicate that the Resolution code and Resolution notes fields are now mandatory.

 Data Policies execute server-side logic. UI Policies execute client-side logic. 

 - execute based on field values YES
 - execute on form save/submit/update YES
 - execute on form field value change ONLY IF Use as UI policy is selected
 - Set field Mandatory attribute YES
 - Set field Read only attribute YES
 - Set field visibility attribute NO
 - Set field attributes with no scripting YES
 - Execute scripts for advanced logic NO

 
 Data Policies are script-free, server-side application files.
 Data Policies have a condition as part of the trigger. 
 Data Policies can take different actions when the Conditions field evaluates to true or false.

 Data Policy Rules do not require scripting to set field attributes:

Mandatory
Read only

Data Policies are not dependent on how a record is updated.

Configure the Use as UI Policy on client option to make Data Policy logic run on a form.

Convert a Data Policy to a UI Policy to:

Adjust field visibility
To run a script when UI Policy conditions are met

Convert a UI Policy to a Data Policy to execute logic regardless of how a record is updated.